mobile/android/android-components/components/service/glean/docs/pings/events.md, before:

# The `events` ping

## Description
The events ping's purpose is to transport all of the event metric information.

## Scheduling

The `events` ping is sent under the following circumstances:

- Normally, it is sent when the application goes into the
  [background](pings.md#defining-background-state), if there
  are any recorded events to send.

- When the queue of events exceeds `Glean.configuration.maxEvents` (default
  500).

- If there are any unsent events found on disk when starting the application. It
  would be impossible to coordinate the timestamps across a reboot, so it's best
  to just collect all events from the previous run into their own ping, and
  start over.

All of these cases are handled automatically, with no intervention or
configuration required by the application.

## Contents
At the top-level, this ping contains the following keys:

- `ping_info`: The information [common to all pings](pings.md#the-ping_info-section).

- `events`: An array of all of the events that have occurred since the last time
  the `events` ping was sent.

Each entry in the `events` array is an array with the following items:

- [0]: `timestamp`: The milliseconds relative to the first event in the ping.

- [1]: `category`: The category of the event, as defined by its location in the
  `metrics.yaml` file.

- [2]: `name`: The name of the event, as definded in the `metrics.yaml` file.

- [3]: `extra` (optional): A mapping of strings to strings providing additional
  data about the event. The keys are restricted to 40 characters and values in
  this map will never exceed 100 characters.

Commit message:

[components] Revert "1533746: Make events survive application restarts"
This reverts commit https://github.com/mozilla-mobile/firefox-android/commit/5ec0389589be2ac7930881060f554db428e8d2fd.

mobile/android/android-components/components/service/glean/docs/pings/events.md, after:

# The `events` ping

## Description
The events ping's purpose is to transport all of the event metric information.

## Scheduling
The `events` ping is normally sent when the application goes into the
[background](pings.md#defining-background-state). It is also sent when the queue of events exceeds
`Glean.configuration.maxEvents` (default 500). This happens automatically, with
no intervention or configuration required by the application.

## Contents
At the top-level, this ping contains the following keys:

- `ping_info`: The information [common to all pings](pings.md#the-ping_info-section).

- `events`: An array of all of the events that have occurred since the last time
  the `events` ping was sent.

Each entry in the `events` array is an array with the following items:

- [0]: `msSinceStart`: The milliseconds since the start of the process.

- [1]: `category`: The category of the event, as defined by its location in the
  `metrics.yaml` file.

- [2]: `name`: The name of the event, as definded in the `metrics.yaml` file.

- [3]: `extra` (optional): A mapping of strings to strings providing additional
  data about the event. The keys are restricted to 40 characters and values in 
  this map will never exceed 100 characters.
