mobile/android/android-components/components/service/glean/docs/metrics/adding-new-metrics.md, before:

# Adding new metrics

All metrics that your project collects must be defined in a `metrics.yaml`
file. This file should be at the root of the application or library module (the same
directory as the `build.gradle` file you updated). The format of that file is
documented [here](https://mozilla.github.io/glean_parser/metrics-yaml.html).

When adding a new metric, the workflow is:
* Decide on which metric type you want to use.
* Add a new entry to metrics.yaml.
* Add code to your project to record into the metric by calling Glean.

**Important**: as stated [here](../../README.md#before-using-the-library), any new data collection requires
documentation and data-review. This is also required for any new metric automatically collected
by glean.

# Choosing a metric type

There are different metrics to choose from, depending on what you want to achieve:

* [Events](#Events): These allow recording of e.g. individual occurences of user actions, say every time a view was open and from where.
* [Counters](#Counters): Used to count how often something happens, say how often a certain button was pressed.
* [Labeled metrics](#labeled-metrics): Used to record multiple metrics of the same type under different string labels, say every time you want to get a count of different error types in one metric.
* [Timing Distributions](#Timing-Distributions): Used to count multiple time measurements.

## Events

Events allow recording of e.g. individual occurences of user actions, say every time a view was open and from where.
Each time you record an event, it records a timestamp, the events name and a set of custom values.

Say you're adding a new event for when a view is shown. First you need to add an entry for the event to the `metrics.yaml` file:

```YAML
views:
  login_opened:
    type: event
    description: >
      Recorded when the login view is opened.
    ...
    extra_keys:
      source_of_login: 
        description: The source from which the login view was opened, e.g. "toolbar".
```

Now you can use the event from the applications code. Note that an `enum` has
been generated for handling the `extra_keys`: it has the same name as the event
metric, with `Keys` added. The enumeration values will be converted from
`snake_case` to `camelCase` for use in Kotlin.

```Kotlin
import org.mozilla.yourApplication.GleanMetrics.Views

// ...
Views.loginOpened.record(mapOf(Views.loginOpenedKeys.sourceOfLogin to "toolbar"))
```

There are test APIs available too, for example:
```Kotlin
import org.mozilla.yourApplication.GleanMetrics.Views

// Was any event recorded?
assertTrue(Views.loginOpened.testHasValue())
// Get a List of the recorded events.
val snapshot = Views.loginOpened.testGetValue()
// Check that two events were recorded.
assertEquals(2, snapshot.size)
val first = snapshot.single()
assertEquals("login_opened", first.name)
```

NOTE: Using the testing API requires calling `Glean.enableTestingMode()` first,
such as from a `@Before` method.

## Counters

Used to count how often something happens, say how often a certain button was pressed.
A counter always starts from `0`. Each time you record to a counter, its value is incremented.

Say you're adding a new counter for how often the refresh button is pressed. First you need to add an entry for the counter to the `metrics.yaml` file:

```YAML
controls:
  refresh_pressed:
    type: counter
    description: >
      Counts how often the refresh button is pressed.
    ...
```

Now you can use the event from the applications code:
```Kotlin
import org.mozilla.yourApplication.GleanMetrics.Controls

// ...
Controls.refreshPressed.add() // Adds 1 to the counter.
Controls.refreshPressed.add(5) // Adds 5 to the counter.
```

There are test APIs available too:

```Kotlin
import org.mozilla.yourApplication.GleanMetrics.Controls
Glean.enableTestingMode()

// Was anything recorded?
assertTrue(Controls.refreshPressed.testHasValue())
// Does the counter have the expected value?
assertEquals(6, Controls.refreshPressed.testGetValue())
```

## Labeled metrics

Some metrics can be used as *labeled* variants. This means that for a single metric entry you define in `metrics.yaml`, you can record into multiple metrics under the same name, each identified by a different string label.

This is useful when you need to break down metrics by a label known at build time or run time. For example:
- When you want to count a different set of subviews that users interact with, you could use `viewCount["view1"].add()` and `viewCount["view2"].add()`.
- When you want to count errors that might occur for a feature, you could use `errorCount[errorName].add()`.

**Note**: Be careful with using arbitrary strings as labels and make sure they can't accidentally contain identifying data (like directory paths or user input).

Say you're adding a new counter for errors that can occur when loading a resource from a REST API. First you need to add an entry for the counter to the `metrics.yaml` file:

```YAML
updater:
  load_error:
    type: counter
    labeled: true # This makes it a labeled counter.
    labels: # This is optional, if provided it limits the set of labels you can use.
    - timeout
    - not_found
    description: >
      Counts the different types of load errors that can occur.
    ...
```

Now you can use the labeled counter from the applications code:
```Kotlin
import org.mozilla.yourApplication.GleanMetrics.Updater

// ...
Updater.loadError["timeout"].add() // Adds 1 to the "timeout" counter.
Updater.loadError["not_found"].add(2)
```

There are test APIs available too:

```Kotlin
import org.mozilla.yourApplication.GleanMetrics.Updater
Glean.enableTestingMode()

// Was anything recorded?
assertTrue(Updater.loadError["timeout"].testHasValue())
assertTrue(Updater.loadError["not_found"].testHasValue())
// Does the counter have the expected value?
assertEquals(2, Updater.loadError["not_found"].testGetValue())
```

## Timing Distributions

Used to accumulate and store time measurement, for analyzing distributions of the timing data.

If you wanted to create a timing distribution to measure page load times, first you need to add an 
entry for it to the `metrics.yaml` file:

```YAML
pages:
  page_load:
    type: timing_distribution
    time_unit: millisecond
    description: >
      Counts how long each page takes to load
    ...
```

Note that `time_unit` is required and allows for values like `millisecond` and `second`. Which range 
of values is recorded in detail depends on the `time_unit`, e.g. for milliseconds all values greater 
60000 are recorded as overflow values.

Now that the timing distribution is defined in `metrics.yaml` you can use the metric to record data
in the application code:
```Kotlin
import org.mozilla.yourApplication.GleanMetrics.Pages

// ...
pages.pageLoad.accumulate(1L) // Accumulates a sample of 1 millisecond
pages.pageLoad.accumulate(10L) // Accumulates a sample of 10 milliseconds
```

There are test APIs available too.  For convenience, properties `sum` and `count` are exposed to 
facilitate validating that data was recorded correctly.  Continuing the `pageLoad` example above,
at this point the metric should have a `sum == 11` and a `count == 2`:
```Kotlin
import org.mozilla.yourApplication.GleanMetrics.Pages
Glean.enableTestingMode()

// Was anything recorded?
assertTrue(pages.pageLoad.testHasValue())

// Get snapshot
val snapshot = pages.pageLoad.testGetValue()

// Does the sum have the expected value?
assertEquals(11, snapshot.sum)

// Usually you don't know the exact timing values, but how many should have been recorded.
assertEquals(2L, snapshot.count())

```

Commit message:

[components] 1533746: Make events survive closes of the application

mobile/android/android-components/components/service/glean/docs/metrics/adding-new-metrics.md, after:

# Adding new metrics

All metrics that your project collects must be defined in a `metrics.yaml`
file. This file should be at the root of the application or library module (the same
directory as the `build.gradle` file you updated). The format of that file is
documented [here](https://mozilla.github.io/glean_parser/metrics-yaml.html).

When adding a new metric, the workflow is:
* Decide on which metric type you want to use.
* Add a new entry to metrics.yaml.
* Add code to your project to record into the metric by calling Glean.

**Important**: as stated [here](../../README.md#before-using-the-library), any new data collection requires
documentation and data-review. This is also required for any new metric automatically collected
by glean.

# Choosing a metric type

There are different metrics to choose from, depending on what you want to achieve:

* [Events](#Events): These allow recording of e.g. individual occurences of user actions, say every time a view was open and from where.
* [Counters](#Counters): Used to count how often something happens, say how often a certain button was pressed.
* [Labeled metrics](#labeled-metrics): Used to record multiple metrics of the same type under different string labels, say every time you want to get a count of different error types in one metric.
* [Timing Distributions](#Timing-Distributions): Used to count multiple time measurements.

## Events

Events allow recording of e.g. individual occurences of user actions, say every time a view was open and from where.
Each time you record an event, it records a timestamp, the events name and a set of custom values.

Say you're adding a new event for when a view is shown. First you need to add an entry for the event to the `metrics.yaml` file:

```YAML
views:
  login_opened:
    type: event
    description: >
      Recorded when the login view is opened.
    ...
    extra_keys:
      source_of_login: 
        description: The source from which the login view was opened, e.g. "toolbar".
```

Now you can use the event from the applications code. Note that an `enum` has
been generated for handling the `extra_keys`: it has the same name as the event
metric, with `Keys` added. The enumeration values will be converted from
`snake_case` to `camelCase` for use in Kotlin.

```Kotlin
import org.mozilla.yourApplication.GleanMetrics.Views

// ...
Views.loginOpened.record(mapOf(Views.loginOpenedKeys.sourceOfLogin to "toolbar"))
```

There are test APIs available too, for example:
```Kotlin
import org.mozilla.yourApplication.GleanMetrics.Views

// Was any event recorded?
assertTrue(Views.loginOpened.testHasValue())
// Get a List of the recorded events.
val snapshot = Views.loginOpened.testGetValue()
// Check that two events were recorded.
assertEquals(2, snapshot.size)
val first = snapshot.single()
assertEquals("login_opened", first.name)
```

NOTE: Using the testing API requires calling `Glean.enableTestingMode()` first,
such as from a `@Before` method.

Event timestamps use a system timer that is guaranteed to be monotonic only
within a particular boot of the device. Therefore, if there are any unsent
recorded events on disk when the application starts, any pings containing those
events are sent immediately, so that glean can start over using a new timer and
events based on different timers are never sent within the same ping.

## Counters

Used to count how often something happens, say how often a certain button was pressed.
A counter always starts from `0`. Each time you record to a counter, its value is incremented.

Say you're adding a new counter for how often the refresh button is pressed. First you need to add an entry for the counter to the `metrics.yaml` file:

```YAML
controls:
  refresh_pressed:
    type: counter
    description: >
      Counts how often the refresh button is pressed.
    ...
```

Now you can use the event from the applications code:
```Kotlin
import org.mozilla.yourApplication.GleanMetrics.Controls

// ...
Controls.refreshPressed.add() // Adds 1 to the counter.
Controls.refreshPressed.add(5) // Adds 5 to the counter.
```

There are test APIs available too:

```Kotlin
import org.mozilla.yourApplication.GleanMetrics.Controls
Glean.enableTestingMode()

// Was anything recorded?
assertTrue(Controls.refreshPressed.testHasValue())
// Does the counter have the expected value?
assertEquals(6, Controls.refreshPressed.testGetValue())
```

## Labeled metrics

Some metrics can be used as *labeled* variants. This means that for a single metric entry you define in `metrics.yaml`, you can record into multiple metrics under the same name, each identified by a different string label.

This is useful when you need to break down metrics by a label known at build time or run time. For example:
- When you want to count a different set of subviews that users interact with, you could use `viewCount["view1"].add()` and `viewCount["view2"].add()`.
- When you want to count errors that might occur for a feature, you could use `errorCount[errorName].add()`.

**Note**: Be careful with using arbitrary strings as labels and make sure they can't accidentally contain identifying data (like directory paths or user input).

Say you're adding a new counter for errors that can occur when loading a resource from a REST API. First you need to add an entry for the counter to the `metrics.yaml` file:

```YAML
updater:
  load_error:
    type: counter
    labeled: true # This makes it a labeled counter.
    labels: # This is optional, if provided it limits the set of labels you can use.
    - timeout
    - not_found
    description: >
      Counts the different types of load errors that can occur.
    ...
```

Now you can use the labeled counter from the applications code:
```Kotlin
import org.mozilla.yourApplication.GleanMetrics.Updater

// ...
Updater.loadError["timeout"].add() // Adds 1 to the "timeout" counter.
Updater.loadError["not_found"].add(2)
```

There are test APIs available too:

```Kotlin
import org.mozilla.yourApplication.GleanMetrics.Updater
Glean.enableTestingMode()

// Was anything recorded?
assertTrue(Updater.loadError["timeout"].testHasValue())
assertTrue(Updater.loadError["not_found"].testHasValue())
// Does the counter have the expected value?
assertEquals(2, Updater.loadError["not_found"].testGetValue())
```

## Timing Distributions

Used to accumulate and store time measurement, for analyzing distributions of the timing data.

If you wanted to create a timing distribution to measure page load times, first you need to add an 
entry for it to the `metrics.yaml` file:

```YAML
pages:
  page_load:
    type: timing_distribution
    time_unit: millisecond
    description: >
      Counts how long each page takes to load
    ...
```

Note that `time_unit` is required and allows for values like `millisecond` and `second`. Which range 
of values is recorded in detail depends on the `time_unit`, e.g. for milliseconds all values greater 
60000 are recorded as overflow values.

Now that the timing distribution is defined in `metrics.yaml` you can use the metric to record data
in the application code:
```Kotlin
import org.mozilla.yourApplication.GleanMetrics.Pages

// ...
pages.pageLoad.accumulate(1L) // Accumulates a sample of 1 millisecond
pages.pageLoad.accumulate(10L) // Accumulates a sample of 10 milliseconds
```

There are test APIs available too.  For convenience, properties `sum` and `count` are exposed to 
facilitate validating that data was recorded correctly.  Continuing the `pageLoad` example above,
at this point the metric should have a `sum == 11` and a `count == 2`:
```Kotlin
import org.mozilla.yourApplication.GleanMetrics.Pages
Glean.enableTestingMode()

// Was anything recorded?
assertTrue(pages.pageLoad.testHasValue())

// Get snapshot
val snapshot = pages.pageLoad.testGetValue()

// Does the sum have the expected value?
assertEquals(11, snapshot.sum)

// Usually you don't know the exact timing values, but how many should have been recorded.
assertEquals(2L, snapshot.count())

```
