servo/README.md, before:

# The Servo Parallel Browser Project

Servo is a prototype web browser engine written in the
[Rust](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust) language. It is currently developed on
64bit OS X, 64bit Linux, Android, and Gonk (Firefox OS).

Servo welcomes contribution from everyone.  See
[`CONTRIBUTING.md`](CONTRIBUTING.md) for help getting started.

## Prerequisites

On OS X (homebrew):

``` sh
brew install automake pkg-config python cmake
pip install virtualenv
```

On OS X (MacPorts):

``` sh
sudo port install python27 py27-virtualenv cmake
```

On Debian-based Linuxes:

``` sh
sudo apt-get install curl freeglut3-dev \
    libfreetype6-dev libgl1-mesa-dri libglib2.0-dev xorg-dev \
    gperf g++ cmake python-virtualenv \
    libssl-dev libbz2-dev libosmesa6-dev libxmu6 libxmu-dev libglu1-mesa-dev
```

On Fedora:

``` sh
sudo dnf install curl freeglut-devel libtool gcc-c++ libXi-devel \
    freetype-devel mesa-libGL-devel glib2-devel libX11-devel libXrandr-devel gperf \
    fontconfig-devel cabextract ttmkfdir python python-virtualenv expat-devel \
    rpm-build openssl-devel cmake bzip2-devel libXcursor-devel libXmu-devel mesa-libOSMesa-devel
```

On Arch Linux:

``` sh
sudo pacman -S --needed base-devel git python2 python2-virtualenv mesa cmake bzip2 libxmu
```

Cross-compilation for Android:

Pre-installed Android tools are needed. See wiki for
[details](https://github.com/mozilla/servo/wiki/Building-for-Android)

Using Virtualbox:

If you're running servo on a guest machine, make sure 3D Acceleration is switched off ([#5643](https://github.com/servo/servo/issues/5643))

## The Rust compiler

Servo's build system automatically downloads a snapshot Rust compiler to build itself.
This is normally a specific revision of Rust upstream, but sometimes has a
backported patch or two.
If you'd like to know the snapshot revision of Rust which we use, see
`rust-snapshot-hash`.

## Building

Servo is built with Cargo, the Rust package manager. We also use Mozilla's
Mach tools to orchestrate the build and other tasks.

### Normal build


To build Servo in development mode.  This is useful for development, but
the resulting binary is very slow.

``` sh
git clone https://github.com/servo/servo
cd servo
./mach build --dev
./mach run tests/html/about-mozilla.html
```

For benchmarking, performance testing, or
real-world use, add the `--release` flag to create an optimized build:

``` sh
./mach build --release
./mach run --release tests/html/about-mozilla.html
```

### Building for Android target

``` sh
git clone https://github.com/servo/servo
cd servo
ANDROID_TOOLCHAIN=/path/to/toolchain ANDROID_NDK=/path/to/ndk PATH=$PATH:/path/to/toolchain/bin ./mach build --android
cd ports/android
ANDROID_SDK=/path/to/sdk make install
```

Rather than setting the `ANDROID_*` environment variables every time, you can
also create a `.servobuild` file and then edit it to contain the correct paths
to the Android SDK/NDK tools:

```
cp servobuild.example .servobuild
# edit .servobuild
```

## Running

Use `./mach run [url]` to run Servo.


### Commandline Arguments

- `-p INTERVAL` turns on the profiler and dumps info to the console every
  `INTERVAL` seconds
- `-s SIZE` sets the tile size for painting; defaults to 512
- `-z` disables all graphical output; useful for running JS / layout tests

### Keyboard Shortcuts

- `Ctrl-L` opens a dialog to browse to a new URL (Mac only currently)
- `Ctrl--` zooms out
- `Ctrl-=` zooms in
- `Backspace` goes backwards in the history
- `Shift-Backspace` goes forwards in the history
- `Esc` exits servo

## Developing

There are lots of mach commands you can use. You can list them with `./mach
--help`.


The generated documentation can be found on http://doc.servo.org/servo/index.html

Commit message:

servo: Merge #7506 - Add note on Ubuntu 14.04 dependencies error (from xiaochuanyu:patch-2); r=metajack
Update README with note about possible problem installing dependencies on Ubuntu 14.04.
See #6158 for details.

Source-Repo: https://github.com/servo/servo
Source-Revision: dbf549ea32d23cf96b7f49e3333c068aaf050bc3

servo/README.md, after:

# The Servo Parallel Browser Project

Servo is a prototype web browser engine written in the
[Rust](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust) language. It is currently developed on
64bit OS X, 64bit Linux, Android, and Gonk (Firefox OS).

Servo welcomes contribution from everyone.  See
[`CONTRIBUTING.md`](CONTRIBUTING.md) for help getting started.

## Prerequisites

On OS X (homebrew):

``` sh
brew install automake pkg-config python cmake
pip install virtualenv
```

On OS X (MacPorts):

``` sh
sudo port install python27 py27-virtualenv cmake
```

On Debian-based Linuxes:

``` sh
sudo apt-get install curl freeglut3-dev \
    libfreetype6-dev libgl1-mesa-dri libglib2.0-dev xorg-dev \
    gperf g++ cmake python-virtualenv \
    libssl-dev libbz2-dev libosmesa6-dev libxmu6 libxmu-dev libglu1-mesa-dev
```
If you are on **Ubuntu 14.04** and encountered errors on installing these dependencies involving `libcheese`, see [#6158](https://github.com/servo/servo/issues/6158) for a workaround.

On Fedora:

``` sh
sudo dnf install curl freeglut-devel libtool gcc-c++ libXi-devel \
    freetype-devel mesa-libGL-devel glib2-devel libX11-devel libXrandr-devel gperf \
    fontconfig-devel cabextract ttmkfdir python python-virtualenv expat-devel \
    rpm-build openssl-devel cmake bzip2-devel libXcursor-devel libXmu-devel mesa-libOSMesa-devel
```

On Arch Linux:

``` sh
sudo pacman -S --needed base-devel git python2 python2-virtualenv mesa cmake bzip2 libxmu
```

Cross-compilation for Android:

Pre-installed Android tools are needed. See wiki for
[details](https://github.com/mozilla/servo/wiki/Building-for-Android)

Using Virtualbox:

If you're running servo on a guest machine, make sure 3D Acceleration is switched off ([#5643](https://github.com/servo/servo/issues/5643))

## The Rust compiler

Servo's build system automatically downloads a snapshot Rust compiler to build itself.
This is normally a specific revision of Rust upstream, but sometimes has a
backported patch or two.
If you'd like to know the snapshot revision of Rust which we use, see
`rust-snapshot-hash`.

## Building

Servo is built with Cargo, the Rust package manager. We also use Mozilla's
Mach tools to orchestrate the build and other tasks.

### Normal build


To build Servo in development mode.  This is useful for development, but
the resulting binary is very slow.

``` sh
git clone https://github.com/servo/servo
cd servo
./mach build --dev
./mach run tests/html/about-mozilla.html
```

For benchmarking, performance testing, or
real-world use, add the `--release` flag to create an optimized build:

``` sh
./mach build --release
./mach run --release tests/html/about-mozilla.html
```

### Building for Android target

``` sh
git clone https://github.com/servo/servo
cd servo
ANDROID_TOOLCHAIN=/path/to/toolchain ANDROID_NDK=/path/to/ndk PATH=$PATH:/path/to/toolchain/bin ./mach build --android
cd ports/android
ANDROID_SDK=/path/to/sdk make install
```

Rather than setting the `ANDROID_*` environment variables every time, you can
also create a `.servobuild` file and then edit it to contain the correct paths
to the Android SDK/NDK tools:

```
cp servobuild.example .servobuild
# edit .servobuild
```

## Running

Use `./mach run [url]` to run Servo.


### Commandline Arguments

- `-p INTERVAL` turns on the profiler and dumps info to the console every
  `INTERVAL` seconds
- `-s SIZE` sets the tile size for painting; defaults to 512
- `-z` disables all graphical output; useful for running JS / layout tests

### Keyboard Shortcuts

- `Ctrl-L` opens a dialog to browse to a new URL (Mac only currently)
- `Ctrl--` zooms out
- `Ctrl-=` zooms in
- `Backspace` goes backwards in the history
- `Shift-Backspace` goes forwards in the history
- `Esc` exits servo

## Developing

There are lots of mach commands you can use. You can list them with `./mach
--help`.


The generated documentation can be found on http://doc.servo.org/servo/index.html
