testing/web-platform/tests/docs/running-tests/chrome.md, before:

# Chrome

When running Chrome, there are some useful command line arguments.

You can inform `wpt` of the release channel of Chrome using `--channel`.
However, `wpt` currently does not support installing Chrome or finding the
Chrome binary of a specific channel, so you would also need to specify the path
to the Chrome binary with `--binary`. For example, to run Chrome Dev on Linux:

```
./wpt run --channel dev --binary `which google-chrome-unstable` chrome
```

Note: when the channel is "dev", `wpt` will *automatically* enable all
[experimental web platform features][1]
(chrome://flags/#enable-experimental-web-platform-features) by passing
`--enable-experimental-web-platform-features` to Chrome.

If you want to enable a specific [runtime enabled feature][1], use
`--binary-arg` to specify the flag(s) that you want to pass to Chrome:

```
./wpt run --binary-arg=--enable-blink-features=AsyncClipboard chrome clipboard-apis/
```

[1]: https://www.chromium.org/blink/runtime-enabled-features

Commit message:

Bug 1570513 [wpt PR 18221] - [wpt] Smarter discovery of Chrome binaries, a=testonly
Automatic update from web-platform-tests
[wpt] Smarter discovery of Chrome binaries (#18221)

Previously, the default binary path for Chrome was hard-coded regardless
of the channel, making it cumbersome to test non-stable channels (in
addition to `--channel`, users had to specify `--binary`). With this
change, `./wpt run` tries to find the channel-specific binary in lieu of
the `--binary` argument:

* On Linux, find google-chrome-{stable,beta,unstable} in PATH.
* On Mac, find "Google Chrome{, Canary}.app".

(Compatible with the official Linux and macOS packages)

This change does not affect existing CI setups, because we always
specify `--binary` on CI.

Also update the doc to reflect the change.
--

wpt-commits: 9dfe14e5f7aff39848311f95223427ecebcb27a2
wpt-pr: 18221

testing/web-platform/tests/docs/running-tests/chrome.md, after:

# Chrome

When running Chrome, there are some useful command line arguments.

You can inform `wpt` of the release channel of Chrome using `--channel`.
`wpt` is able to find the correct binary in the following cases:
* On Linux for stable, beta and dev channels if
  `google-chrome-{stable,beta,unstable}` are in `PATH`;
* On Mac for stable and canary channels if the official DMGs are installed.

In other cases, you will need to specify the path to the Chrome binary with
`--binary`. For example:

```bash
./wpt run --channel dev --binary /path/to/non-default/google-chrome chrome
```

Note: when the channel is "dev", `wpt` will *automatically* enable all
[experimental web platform features][1]
(chrome://flags/#enable-experimental-web-platform-features) by passing
`--enable-experimental-web-platform-features` to Chrome.

If you want to enable a specific [runtime enabled feature][1], use
`--binary-arg` to specify the flag(s) that you want to pass to Chrome:

```bash
./wpt run --binary-arg=--enable-blink-features=AsyncClipboard chrome clipboard-apis/
```

[1]: https://www.chromium.org/blink/runtime-enabled-features
