remote/doc/Prefs.md, before:

# Preferences

There are a couple of preferences associated with the Remote Agent:

## Configurable preferences

### `remote.active-protocols`

Defines the remote protocols that are active. Available protocols are,
WebDriver BiDi (`1`), and CDP (`2`). Multiple protocols can be activated
at the same time by using bitwise or with the values, such as `3` for
both protocols. Defaults to `1` (WebDriver BiDi) since Firefox 129.

### `remote.events.async.enabled`

This preference determines whether processing of action sequences happens in the
parent process and dispatching of individual actions is forwarded to the content
process. Starting with Firefox 135 its value is set to `true` by default.

### `remote.experimental.enabled`

Defines if WebDriver BiDi experimental commands and events are available for usage.
Defaults to `true` in Nightly builds, and `false` otherwise.

### `remote.log.level`

Defines the verbosity of the internal logger.  Available levels
are, in descending order of severity, `Trace`, `Debug`, `Config`,
`Info`, `Warn`, `Error`, and `Fatal`.  Note that the value is
treated case-sensitively.

### `remote.log.truncate`

Defines whether long log messages should be truncated. Defaults to true.

### `remote.prefs.recommended`

By default remote protocols attempts to set a range of preferences deemed
suitable in automation when it starts.  These include the likes of
disabling auto-updates, Telemetry, and first-run UX. Set this preference to
`false` to skip setting those preferences, which is mostly useful for internal
Firefox CI suites.

The user preference file takes precedence over the recommended
preferences, meaning any user-defined preference value will not be
overridden.

### `remote.retry-on-abort`

This preference defines whether certain IPC calls from the parent process to
content processes should be retried when a browsing context is replaced due
to cross-origin navigation, or made inactive when a page moved into BFCache.

Introduced in Firefox 132, the preference is set to `true` by default.

Commit message:

Backed out 3 changesets (bug 1935324, bug 1922077) for causing wpt failures @input-events-get-target-ranges-joining-dl-elements.tentative.html. CLOSED TREE
Backed out changeset d642685f7f4a (bug 1935324)
Backed out changeset 2f4ac27d288f (bug 1922077)
Backed out changeset 6e7923664afa (bug 1922077)

remote/doc/Prefs.md, after:

# Preferences

There are a couple of preferences associated with the Remote Agent:

## Configurable preferences

### `remote.active-protocols`

Defines the remote protocols that are active. Available protocols are,
WebDriver BiDi (`1`), and CDP (`2`). Multiple protocols can be activated
at the same time by using bitwise or with the values, such as `3` for
both protocols. Defaults to `1` (WebDriver BiDi) since Firefox 129.

### `remote.events.async.enabled` (experimental)

This preference determines whether asynchronous event dispatching is used to
simulate real user input. By default, it is set to `false`, meaning events are
synthesized directly in the web page's content process, bypassing OS-level
layers like APZ (asynchronous panning and zooming).

Warning: This feature is still under development and should only be enabled for
testing purposes, not in production environments.

### `remote.experimental.enabled`

Defines if WebDriver BiDi experimental commands and events are available for usage.
Defaults to `true` in Nightly builds, and `false` otherwise.

### `remote.log.level`

Defines the verbosity of the internal logger.  Available levels
are, in descending order of severity, `Trace`, `Debug`, `Config`,
`Info`, `Warn`, `Error`, and `Fatal`.  Note that the value is
treated case-sensitively.

### `remote.log.truncate`

Defines whether long log messages should be truncated. Defaults to true.

### `remote.prefs.recommended`

By default remote protocols attempts to set a range of preferences deemed
suitable in automation when it starts.  These include the likes of
disabling auto-updates, Telemetry, and first-run UX. Set this preference to
`false` to skip setting those preferences, which is mostly useful for internal
Firefox CI suites.

The user preference file takes precedence over the recommended
preferences, meaning any user-defined preference value will not be
overridden.

### `remote.retry-on-abort`

This preference defines whether certain IPC calls from the parent process to
content processes should be retried when a browsing context is replaced due
to cross-origin navigation, or made inactive when a page moved into BFCache.

Introduced in Firefox 132, the preference is set to `true` by default.
