third_party/rust/png/README.md, before:

# PNG Decoder/Encoder
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/PistonDevelopers/image-png.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/PistonDevelopers/image-png)
[![Crates.io](https://docs.rs/png/badge.svg)](https://docs.rs/png)
[![Crates.io](https://img.shields.io/crates/v/png.svg)](https://crates.io/crates/png)
![Lines of Code](https://tokei.rs/b1/github/PistonDevelopers/image-png)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/crates/l/png.svg)](https://github.com/PistonDevelopers/image-png)

PNG decoder/encoder in pure Rust. Currently `pngcheck` is the most usable part. Build with `cargo build --release --example pngcheck`.

## License

Licensed under either of

 * Apache License, Version 2.0 ([LICENSE-APACHE](LICENSE-APACHE) or http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0)
 * MIT license ([LICENSE-MIT](LICENSE-MIT) or http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)

at your option.

### Contribution

Unless you explicitly state otherwise, any contribution intentionally submitted
for inclusion in the work by you, as defined in the Apache-2.0 license, shall be dual licensed as above, without any
additional terms or conditions.

Commit message:

Bug 1573039 - Part 2: Revendor dependencies. r=emilio
Differential Revision: https://phabricator.services.mozilla.com/D41489

third_party/rust/png/README.md, after:

# PNG Decoder/Encoder
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/image-rs/image-png.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/image-rs/image-png)
[![Documentation](https://docs.rs/png/badge.svg)](https://docs.rs/png)
[![Crates.io](https://img.shields.io/crates/v/png.svg)](https://crates.io/crates/png)
![Lines of Code](https://tokei.rs/b1/github/image-rs/image-png)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/crates/l/png.svg)](https://github.com/image-rs/image-png)

PNG decoder/encoder in pure Rust.

It contains all features required to handle the entirety of [the PngSuite by
Willem van Schack][PngSuite].

[PngSuite]: http://www.schaik.com/pngsuite2011/pngsuite.html

## pngcheck

The `pngcheck` utility is a small demonstration binary that checks and prints
metadata on every `.png` image provided via parameter. You can run it (for
example on the test directories) with

```bash
cargo run --release --example pngcheck ./tests/pngsuite/*
```

## License

Licensed under either of

 * Apache License, Version 2.0 ([LICENSE-APACHE](LICENSE-APACHE) or http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0)
 * MIT license ([LICENSE-MIT](LICENSE-MIT) or http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)

at your option.

### Contribution

Unless you explicitly state otherwise, any contribution intentionally submitted
for inclusion in the work by you, as defined in the Apache-2.0 license, shall be dual licensed as above, without any
additional terms or conditions.
