third_party/libwebrtc/docs/native-code/development/fuzzers/README.md, before:

# Fuzzing in WebRTC

## Intro
WebRTC currently uses libfuzzer for fuzz testing however FuzzTest is a new approach which we have not yet looked into but we will in the future.

Before continuing, read the [libfuzzer][libfuzzer-getting-started] and [FuzzTest][fuzztest-getting-started] getting started docs to get familar.

## Compiling locally
To build the fuzzers residing in the [test/fuzzers][fuzzers] directory, use
```
$ gn gen out/fuzzers --args='use_libfuzzer=true optimize_for_fuzzing=true'
```
Depending on the fuzzer additional arguments like `is_asan`, `is_msan` or `is_ubsan_security` might be required.

See the [GN][gn-doc] documentation for all available options. There are also more
platform specific tips on the [Android][webrtc-android-development] and
[iOS][webrtc-ios-development] instructions.

## Add new fuzzers
Create a new `.cc` file in the [test/fuzzers][fuzzers] directory, use existing files as a guide.

Add a new `webrtc_fuzzers_test` build rule in the [test/fuzzers/BUILD.gn][BUILD.gn], use existing rules as a guide.

Ensure it compiles and executes locally then add it to a gerrit CL and upload it for review, e.g.

```
$ autoninja -C out/fuzzers test/fuzzers:h264_depacketizer_fuzzer
```

It can then be executed like so:
```
$ out/fuzzers/bin/run_h264_depacketizer_fuzzer
```

## Running fuzzers automatically
All fuzzer tests in the [test/fuzzers/BUILD.gn][BUILD.gn] file are compiled per CL on the [libfuzzer bot][libfuzzer-bot].
This is only to verify that it compiles, this bot does not do any fuzz testing.

When WebRTC is [rolled][webrtc-autoroller] into to Chromium, the libfuzz bots in the [chromium.fuzz][chromium-fuzz] will compile it, zip it and then upload to https://clusterfuzz.com for execution.

You can verify that the fuzz test is being executed by:
 - Navigate to a bot in the [chromium.fuzz][chromium-fuzz] libfuzzer waterfall, e.g. [ Libfuzzer Upload Linux ASan bot/linux bot][linux-bot].
 - Click on the latest `build#` link.
 - Search for `//third_party/webrtc/test/fuzzers` in the `raw_io.output_text_refs_` file in the `calculate_all_fuzzers` step.
 - Verify that the new fuzzer (as it's named in the `webrtc_fuzzers_test` build rule) is present.
 - Also verify that it's _NOT_ in the `no_clusterfuzz` file in the `calculate_no_clusterfuzz` step. If it is, file a bug at https://bugs.webrtc.org.

Bugs are filed automatically in https://crbug.com in the blink > WebRTC component and assigned based on [test/fuzzers/OWNERS][OWNERS] file or the commit history.

If you are a non-googler, you can only view data from https://clusterfuzz.com if your account is CC'ed on the reported bug.

## Additional reading

[Libfuzzer in Chromium][libfuzzer-chromium]


[libfuzzer-chromium]: https://chromium.googlesource.com/chromium/src/+/HEAD/testing/libfuzzer/README.md
[libfuzzer-bot]: https://ci.chromium.org/ui/p/webrtc/builders/luci.webrtc.ci/Linux64%20Release%20%28Libfuzzer%29
[fuzzers]: https://webrtc.googlesource.com/src/+/main/test/fuzzers/
[OWNERS]: https://webrtc.googlesource.com/src/+/main/test/fuzzers/OWNERS
[BUILD.gn]: https://webrtc.googlesource.com/src/+/main/test/fuzzers/BUILD.gn
[gn]: https://gn.googlesource.com/gn/+/main/README.md
[gn-doc]: https://gn.googlesource.com/gn/+/main/docs/reference.md#IDE-options
[webrtc-android-development]: https://webrtc.googlesource.com/src/+/main/docs/native-code/android/
[webrtc-ios-development]: https://webrtc.googlesource.com/src/+/main/docs/native-code/ios/
[chromium-fuzz]: https://ci.chromium.org/p/chromium/g/chromium.fuzz/console
[linux-bot]: https://ci.chromium.org/ui/p/chromium/builders/ci/Libfuzzer%20Upload%20Linux%20ASan/
[libfuzzer-getting-started]: https://chromium.googlesource.com/chromium/src/+/main/testing/libfuzzer/getting_started_with_libfuzzer.md
[fuzztest-getting-started]: https://chromium.googlesource.com/chromium/src/+/main/testing/libfuzzer/getting_started.md
[webrtc-autoroller]: https://autoroll.skia.org/r/webrtc-chromium-autoroll

Commit message:

Bug 1942428 - Vendor libwebrtc from 2031ab5c78
Upstream commit: https://webrtc.googlesource.com/src/+/2031ab5c788e338954d7b37da13039eff0a7c354
    Update fuzzer documentation.

    Change-Id: Id9dbaf42881a3ed3f377142b116151aebfd21192
    Bug: None
    Reviewed-on: https://webrtc-review.googlesource.com/c/src/+/368020
    Commit-Queue: Jeremy Leconte <jleconte@webrtc.org>
    Reviewed-by: Björn Terelius <terelius@webrtc.org>
    Cr-Commit-Position: refs/heads/main@{#43388}

third_party/libwebrtc/docs/native-code/development/fuzzers/README.md, after:

# Fuzzing in WebRTC

## Intro
WebRTC currently uses libfuzzer for fuzz testing however FuzzTest is a new approach which we have not yet looked into but we will in the future.

Before continuing, read the [libfuzzer][libfuzzer-getting-started] and [FuzzTest][fuzztest-getting-started] getting started docs to get familar.
You will also need to download libfuzzer specific libraries, which are not downloaded by default. The easiest way to do this is to set the `checkout_fuzzer` custom variable in your .gclient file then run gclient runhooks.
```
  "custom_vars": {
    "checkout_fuzzer": True,
  },
```

## Compiling locally
To build the fuzzers residing in the [test/fuzzers][fuzzers] directory, use
```
$ gn gen out/fuzzers --args='use_libfuzzer=true optimize_for_fuzzing=true'
```
Depending on the fuzzer additional arguments like `is_asan`, `is_msan` or `is_ubsan_security` might be required.

See the [GN][gn-doc] documentation for all available options. There are also more
platform specific tips on the [Android][webrtc-android-development] and
[iOS][webrtc-ios-development] instructions.

## Add new fuzzers
Create a new `.cc` file in the [test/fuzzers][fuzzers] directory, use existing files as a guide.

Add a new `webrtc_fuzzers_test` build rule in the [test/fuzzers/BUILD.gn][BUILD.gn], use existing rules as a guide.

Ensure it compiles and executes locally then add it to a gerrit CL and upload it for review, e.g.

```
$ autoninja -C out/fuzzers test/fuzzers:h264_depacketizer_fuzzer
```

It can then be executed like so:
```
$ out/fuzzers/bin/run_h264_depacketizer_fuzzer
```

## Running fuzzers automatically
All fuzzer tests in the [test/fuzzers/BUILD.gn][BUILD.gn] file are compiled per CL on the [libfuzzer bot][libfuzzer-bot].
This is only to verify that it compiles, this bot does not do any fuzz testing.

When WebRTC is [rolled][webrtc-autoroller] into to Chromium, the libfuzz bots in the [chromium.fuzz][chromium-fuzz] will compile it, zip it and then upload to https://clusterfuzz.com for execution.

You can verify that the fuzz test is being executed by:
 - Navigate to a bot in the [chromium.fuzz][chromium-fuzz] libfuzzer waterfall, e.g. [ Libfuzzer Upload Linux ASan bot/linux bot][linux-bot].
 - Click on the latest `build#` link.
 - Search for `//third_party/webrtc/test/fuzzers` in the `raw_io.output_text_refs_` file in the `calculate_all_fuzzers` step.
 - Verify that the new fuzzer (as it's named in the `webrtc_fuzzers_test` build rule) is present.
 - Also verify that it's _NOT_ in the `no_clusterfuzz` file in the `calculate_no_clusterfuzz` step. If it is, file a bug at https://bugs.webrtc.org.

Bugs are filed automatically in https://crbug.com in the blink > WebRTC component and assigned based on [test/fuzzers/OWNERS][OWNERS] file or the commit history.

If you are a non-googler, you can only view data from https://clusterfuzz.com if your account is CC'ed on the reported bug.

## Additional reading

[Libfuzzer in Chromium][libfuzzer-chromium]


[libfuzzer-chromium]: https://chromium.googlesource.com/chromium/src/+/HEAD/testing/libfuzzer/README.md
[libfuzzer-bot]: https://ci.chromium.org/ui/p/webrtc/builders/luci.webrtc.ci/Linux64%20Release%20%28Libfuzzer%29
[fuzzers]: https://webrtc.googlesource.com/src/+/main/test/fuzzers/
[OWNERS]: https://webrtc.googlesource.com/src/+/main/test/fuzzers/OWNERS
[BUILD.gn]: https://webrtc.googlesource.com/src/+/main/test/fuzzers/BUILD.gn
[gn]: https://gn.googlesource.com/gn/+/main/README.md
[gn-doc]: https://gn.googlesource.com/gn/+/main/docs/reference.md#IDE-options
[webrtc-android-development]: https://webrtc.googlesource.com/src/+/main/docs/native-code/android/
[webrtc-ios-development]: https://webrtc.googlesource.com/src/+/main/docs/native-code/ios/
[chromium-fuzz]: https://ci.chromium.org/p/chromium/g/chromium.fuzz/console
[linux-bot]: https://ci.chromium.org/ui/p/chromium/builders/ci/Libfuzzer%20Upload%20Linux%20ASan/
[libfuzzer-getting-started]: https://chromium.googlesource.com/chromium/src/+/main/testing/libfuzzer/getting_started_with_libfuzzer.md
[fuzztest-getting-started]: https://chromium.googlesource.com/chromium/src/+/main/testing/libfuzzer/getting_started.md
[webrtc-autoroller]: https://autoroll.skia.org/r/webrtc-chromium-autoroll
