testing/geckodriver/doc/CrashReports.md, before:

# Analyzing crash data of Firefox

If Firefox crashes whilst under automation, it's helpful to retrieve the
generated crash data aka minidump files, and report these to us.

## Retrieve the crash data

Because geckodriver creates a temporary user profile for Firefox, it also
automatically removes all its folders once the tests have been finished. That
also means that if Firefox crashed the created minidump files are lost. To
prevent that a custom profile has to be used instead. The following code
shows an example by using the Python Selenium bindings on Mac OS:

```python
import tempfile

from selenium import webdriver
from selenium.webdriver.firefox.options import Options

# Custom profile folder to keep the minidump files
profile = tempfile.mkdtemp(".selenium")
print("*** Using profile: {}".format(profile))

# Use the above folder as custom profile
opts = Options()
opts.add_argument("-profile")
opts.add_argument(profile)
opts.binary = "/Applications/Firefox.app/Contents/MacOS/firefox"

driver = webdriver.Firefox(
    options=opts,
    # hard-code the Marionette port so geckodriver can connect
    service_args=["--marionette-port", "2828"]
)

# Your test code which crashes Firefox
```

Executing the test with Selenium now, which triggers the crash of Firefox
will leave all the files from the user profile around in the above path.

To retrieve the minidump files navigate to that folder and look for a sub
folder with the name `minidumps`. It should contain at least one series of
files. One file with the `.dmp` extension and another one with `.extra`.
Both of those files are needed. If more crash files are present grab them all.

Attach the files as best archived as zip file to the created [geckodriver issue]
on Github.

[geckodriver issue]: https://github.com/mozilla/geckodriver/issues/new

## Getting details of the crash

More advanced users can upload the generated minidump files themselves and
receive details information about the crash. Therefore find the [crash reporter]
folder and copy all the generated minidump files into the `pending` sub directory.
Make sure that both the `.dmp` and `.extra` files are present.

Once done you can also [view the crash reports].

If you submitted a crash please do not forget to also add the link of the
crash report to the geckodriver issue.

[crash reporter]: https://support.mozilla.org/kb/mozillacrashreporter#w_viewing-reports-outside-of-firefox
[view the crash reports]: https://support.mozilla.orgkb/mozillacrashreporter#w_viewing-crash-reports

## Enabling the crash reporter

By default geckodriver disables the crash reporter so it doesn't submit crash
reports to Mozilla's crash reporting system, and also doesn't interfere with
testing.

This behaviour can be overridden by using the command line argument
`--enable-crash-reporter`. You can [view the crash reports] and share it with
us after submission.

**Important**: Please only enable the crash reporter if the above mentioned
solution does not work.

Commit message:

Bug 1934805 - Deprecate "--enable-crash-reporter" argument from geckodriver to stop submission of crash reports to Soccoro. r=webdriver-reviewers,whimboo
Differential Revision: https://phabricator.services.mozilla.com/D232619

testing/geckodriver/doc/CrashReports.md, after:

# Analyzing crash data of Firefox

If Firefox crashes whilst under automation, it's helpful to retrieve the
generated crash data aka minidump files, and report these to us.

## Retrieve the crash data

Because geckodriver creates a temporary user profile for Firefox, it also
automatically removes all its folders once the tests have been finished. That
also means that if Firefox crashed the created minidump files are lost. To
prevent that a custom profile has to be used instead. The following code
shows an example by using the Python Selenium bindings on Mac OS:

```python
import tempfile

from selenium import webdriver
from selenium.webdriver.firefox.options import Options

# Custom profile folder to keep the minidump files
profile = tempfile.mkdtemp(".selenium")
print("*** Using profile: {}".format(profile))

# Use the above folder as custom profile
opts = Options()
opts.add_argument("-profile")
opts.add_argument(profile)
opts.binary = "/Applications/Firefox.app/Contents/MacOS/firefox"

driver = webdriver.Firefox(
    options=opts,
    # hard-code the Marionette port so geckodriver can connect
    service_args=["--marionette-port", "2828"]
)

# Your test code which crashes Firefox
```

Executing the test with Selenium now, which triggers the crash of Firefox
will leave all the files from the user profile around in the above path.

To retrieve the minidump files navigate to that folder and look for a sub
folder with the name `minidumps`. It should contain at least one series of
files. One file with the `.dmp` extension and another one with `.extra`.
Both of those files are needed. If more crash files are present grab them all.

Attach the files as best archived as zip file to the created [geckodriver issue]
on Github.

[geckodriver issue]: https://github.com/mozilla/geckodriver/issues/new

## Getting details of the crash

More advanced users can upload the generated minidump files themselves and
receive details information about the crash. Therefore find the [crash reporter]
folder and copy all the generated minidump files into the `pending` sub directory.
Make sure that both the `.dmp` and `.extra` files are present.

Once done you can also [view the crash reports].

If you submitted a crash please do not forget to also add the link of the
crash report to the geckodriver issue.

[crash reporter]: https://support.mozilla.org/kb/mozillacrashreporter#w_viewing-reports-outside-of-firefox
[view the crash reports]: https://support.mozilla.orgkb/mozillacrashreporter#w_viewing-crash-reports

## Enabling the crash reporter

**Deprecation warning**: `--enable-crash-reporter` argument is deprecated and planned
to be removed with the 0.37.0 release of geckodriver. As such it shouldn't be used
with version 0.36.0 or later anymore. Please use the solution described above.

By default geckodriver disables the crash reporter so it doesn't submit crash
reports to Mozilla's crash reporting system, and also doesn't interfere with
testing.

This behaviour can be overridden by using the command line argument
`--enable-crash-reporter`. You can [view the crash reports] and share it with
us after submission.

**Important**: Please only enable the crash reporter if the above mentioned
solution does not work.
