testing/geckodriver/doc/Releasing.md, before:

Releasing geckodriver
=====================

Releasing geckodriver is not as easy as it once used to be when the
project’s canonical home was on GitHub.  Today geckodriver is hosted
in [mozilla-central], and whilst we do want to make future releases
from [Mozilla’s CI infrastructure], we are currently in between two
worlds: development happens in m-c, but releases continue to be made
from GitHub using Travis.

The reason for this is that we do not compile geckodriver for all
our target platforms, that Rust cross-compilation on TaskCluster
builders is somewhat broken, and that tests are not run in automation.
We intend to fix all these problems.

In any case, the steps to release geckodriver are as follows:

[mozilla-central]: https://hg.mozilla.org/mozilla-central/
[Mozilla’s CI infrastructure]: https://treeherder.mozilla.org/


Release new in-tree dependency crates
-------------------------------------

geckodriver depends on a number of Rust crates that also live in
central by using relative paths:

    [dependencies]
    …
    mozprofile = { path = "../mozbase/rust/mozprofile" }
	mozrunner = { path = "../mozbase/rust/mozrunner" }
	mozversion = { path = "../mozbase/rust/mozversion" }
	…
    webdriver = { path = "../webdriver" }

Because we need to export the geckodriver source code to the old
GitHub repository when we release, we first need to publish these
crates if they have had any changes in the interim since the last
release.  If they have receieved no changes, you can skip them:

  - `testing/mozbase/rust/mozprofile`
  - `testing/mozbase/rust/mozrunner`
  - `testing/mozbase/rust/mozversion`
  - `testing/webdriver`

For each crate:

  1. Bump the version number in Cargo.toml
  2. `cargo publish`


Update the change log
---------------------

Notable changes to geckodriver are mentioned in [CHANGES.md]. Many
users rely on this, so it’s important that you make it **relevant
to end-users**.  For example, we only mention changes that are visible
to users.  The change log is not a complete anthology of commits,
as these often will not convey the essence of a change to end-users.
If a feature was added but removed before release, there is no reason
to list it as a change.

It is good practice to also include relevant information from the
[webdriver] and [rust-mozrunner] crates, since these are the two most
important dependencies of geckodriver and a lot of its functionality
is implemented there.

We follow the writing style of the existing change log, with
one section per version (with a release date), with subsections
‘Added’, ‘Changed’, and ‘Removed’.  If the targetted
Firefox or Selenium versions have changed, it is good to make a
mention of this.  Lines are optimally formatted at roughly 72 columns
to make the file readable in a text editor as well as rendered HTML.
fmt(1) does a splendid job at text formatting.

[CHANGES.md]: https://searchfox.org/mozilla-central/source/testing/geckodriver/CHANGES.md
[rust-mozrunner]: https://github.com/jgraham/rust_mozrunner


Update libraries
----------------

Make relevant changes to [Cargo.toml] to upgrade dependencies, then run

	% ./mach vendor rust
	% ./mach build testing/geckodriver

to pull down and vendor the upgraded libraries.  Remember to check
in the [Cargo.lock] file since we want reproducible builds for
geckodriver, uninfluenced by dependency variations.

The updates to dependencies should always be made as a separate
commit to not confuse reviewers, because vendoring involves checking
in a lot of extra code already reviewed downstream.

[Cargo.toml]: https://searchfox.org/mozilla-central/source/testing/geckodriver/Cargo.toml
[Cargo.lock]: https://searchfox.org/mozilla-central/source/testing/geckodriver/Cargo.lock


Bump the version number
-----------------------

Bump the version number in [Cargo.toml] to the next version.
geckodriver follows [semantic versioning] so it’s a good idea to
familiarise yourself wih that before deciding on the version number.

After you’ve changed the version number, run

	% ./mach build testing/geckodriver

again to update [Cargo.lock], and check in the file.

[semantic versioning]: http://semver.org/


Export to GitHub
----------------

The canonical GitHub repository is

	https://github.com/mozilla/geckodriver.git

so make sure you have a local clone of that.  It has three branches:
_master_ which only contains the [README.md]; _old_ which was the
state of the project when it was exported to mozilla-central; and
_release_, from where releases are made.  We will export the contents
of [testing/geckodriver] to the latter branch:

	% cd $SRC/geckodriver
	% git checkout release
	% git rm -rf .
	% git clean -fxd
	% cp -r $SRC/gecko/testing/geckodriver/* .

[README.md]: https://searchfox.org/mozilla-central/source/testing/geckodriver/README.md
[testing/geckodriver]: https://searchfox.org/mozilla-central/source/testing/geckodriver


Manually change in-tree path dependencies
------------------------------------------

After the source code has been imported we need to change the dependency
information for the `mozrunner`, `mozprofile`, `mozversion`, and
`webdriver` crates.  As explained previously geckodriver depends
on a relative path in in the mozilla-central repository to build
with the latest unreleased source code.

This relative paths do not exist in the GitHub repository and the
build will fail unless we change it to the latest crate versions
from crates.io.  That version will either be the crate you published
earlier, or the latest version available if no changes have been
made to it since the last geckodriver release.


Commit local changes
--------------------

Now commit all the changes you have made locally to the _release_ branch:

	% git add .
	% git commit -am "import of vX.Y.Z"

As indicated above, the changes you make to this branch will not
be upstreamed back into mozilla-central.  It is merely used as a
staging ground for pushing builds to Travis.


Tag the release
---------------

Run the following command to tag the release:

	% git tag 'vX.Y.Z'


Make the release
----------------

geckodriver is released and automatically uploaded from Travis by
pushing a new version tag to the _release_ branch:

	% git push
	% git push --tags


Update the release description
------------------------------

Copy the raw Markdown source from [CHANGES.md] into the description
of the [latest release].  This will highlight for end-users what
changes were made in that particular package when they visit the
GitHub downloads section.

Congratulations!  You’ve released geckodriver!

[latest release]: https://github.com/mozilla/geckodriver/releases


Future work
-----------

In the future, we intend to [sign releases] so that they are
verifiable.

[sign releases]: https://github.com/mozilla/geckodriver/issues/292

Commit message:

Bug 1445244 - Highlight that release must be made from bump commit. r=me
MozReview-Commit-ID: DNM2lEn1Wvo

testing/geckodriver/doc/Releasing.md, after:

Releasing geckodriver
=====================

Releasing geckodriver is not as easy as it once used to be when the
project’s canonical home was on GitHub.  Today geckodriver is hosted
in [mozilla-central], and whilst we do want to make future releases
from [Mozilla’s CI infrastructure], we are currently in between two
worlds: development happens in m-c, but releases continue to be made
from GitHub using Travis.

The reason for this is that we do not compile geckodriver for all
our target platforms, that Rust cross-compilation on TaskCluster
builders is somewhat broken, and that tests are not run in automation.
We intend to fix all these problems.

In any case, the steps to release geckodriver are as follows:

[mozilla-central]: https://hg.mozilla.org/mozilla-central/
[Mozilla’s CI infrastructure]: https://treeherder.mozilla.org/


Release new in-tree dependency crates
-------------------------------------

geckodriver depends on a number of Rust crates that also live in
central by using relative paths:

    [dependencies]
    …
    mozprofile = { path = "../mozbase/rust/mozprofile" }
	mozrunner = { path = "../mozbase/rust/mozrunner" }
	mozversion = { path = "../mozbase/rust/mozversion" }
	…
    webdriver = { path = "../webdriver" }

Because we need to export the geckodriver source code to the old
GitHub repository when we release, we first need to publish these
crates if they have had any changes in the interim since the last
release.  If they have receieved no changes, you can skip them:

  - `testing/mozbase/rust/mozprofile`
  - `testing/mozbase/rust/mozrunner`
  - `testing/mozbase/rust/mozversion`
  - `testing/webdriver`

For each crate:

  1. Bump the version number in Cargo.toml
  2. `cargo publish`


Update the change log
---------------------

Notable changes to geckodriver are mentioned in [CHANGES.md]. Many
users rely on this, so it’s important that you make it **relevant
to end-users**.  For example, we only mention changes that are visible
to users.  The change log is not a complete anthology of commits,
as these often will not convey the essence of a change to end-users.
If a feature was added but removed before release, there is no reason
to list it as a change.

It is good practice to also include relevant information from the
[webdriver] and [rust-mozrunner] crates, since these are the two most
important dependencies of geckodriver and a lot of its functionality
is implemented there.

We follow the writing style of the existing change log, with
one section per version (with a release date), with subsections
‘Added’, ‘Changed’, and ‘Removed’.  If the targetted
Firefox or Selenium versions have changed, it is good to make a
mention of this.  Lines are optimally formatted at roughly 72 columns
to make the file readable in a text editor as well as rendered HTML.
fmt(1) does a splendid job at text formatting.

[CHANGES.md]: https://searchfox.org/mozilla-central/source/testing/geckodriver/CHANGES.md
[rust-mozrunner]: https://github.com/jgraham/rust_mozrunner


Update libraries
----------------

Make relevant changes to [Cargo.toml] to upgrade dependencies, then run

	% ./mach vendor rust
	% ./mach build testing/geckodriver

to pull down and vendor the upgraded libraries.  Remember to check
in the [Cargo.lock] file since we want reproducible builds for
geckodriver, uninfluenced by dependency variations.

The updates to dependencies should always be made as a separate
commit to not confuse reviewers, because vendoring involves checking
in a lot of extra code already reviewed downstream.

[Cargo.toml]: https://searchfox.org/mozilla-central/source/testing/geckodriver/Cargo.toml
[Cargo.lock]: https://searchfox.org/mozilla-central/source/testing/geckodriver/Cargo.lock


Bump the version number
-----------------------

Bump the version number in [Cargo.toml] to the next version.
geckodriver follows [semantic versioning] so it’s a good idea to
familiarise yourself wih that before deciding on the version number.

After you’ve changed the version number, run

	% ./mach build testing/geckodriver

again to update [Cargo.lock], and check in the file.

[semantic versioning]: http://semver.org/


Export to GitHub
----------------

The canonical GitHub repository is

	https://github.com/mozilla/geckodriver.git

so make sure you have a local clone of that.  It has three branches:
_master_ which only contains the [README.md]; _old_ which was the
state of the project when it was exported to mozilla-central; and
_release_, from where releases are made.

Before we copy the code over to the GitHub repository we need to
check out the [commit we made earlier](#bump-the-version-number)
against central that bumped the version number:

	% git checkout $BUMP_REVISION

Or:

	% hg update $BUMP_REVISION

We will now export the contents of [testing/geckodriver] to the
_release_ branch:

	% cd $SRC/geckodriver
	% git checkout release
	% git rm -rf .
	% git clean -fxd
	% cp -r $SRC/gecko/testing/geckodriver/* .

[README.md]: https://searchfox.org/mozilla-central/source/testing/geckodriver/README.md
[testing/geckodriver]: https://searchfox.org/mozilla-central/source/testing/geckodriver


Manually change in-tree path dependencies
------------------------------------------

After the source code has been imported we need to change the dependency
information for the `mozrunner`, `mozprofile`, `mozversion`, and
`webdriver` crates.  As explained previously geckodriver depends
on a relative path in in the mozilla-central repository to build
with the latest unreleased source code.

This relative paths do not exist in the GitHub repository and the
build will fail unless we change it to the latest crate versions
from crates.io.  That version will either be the crate you published
earlier, or the latest version available if no changes have been
made to it since the last geckodriver release.


Commit local changes
--------------------

Now commit all the changes you have made locally to the _release_ branch:

	% git add .
	% git commit -am "import of vX.Y.Z"

As indicated above, the changes you make to this branch will not
be upstreamed back into mozilla-central.  It is merely used as a
staging ground for pushing builds to Travis.


Tag the release
---------------

Run the following command to tag the release:

	% git tag 'vX.Y.Z'


Make the release
----------------

geckodriver is released and automatically uploaded from Travis by
pushing a new version tag to the _release_ branch:

	% git push
	% git push --tags


Update the release description
------------------------------

Copy the raw Markdown source from [CHANGES.md] into the description
of the [latest release].  This will highlight for end-users what
changes were made in that particular package when they visit the
GitHub downloads section.

Congratulations!  You’ve released geckodriver!

[latest release]: https://github.com/mozilla/geckodriver/releases


Future work
-----------

In the future, we intend to [sign releases] so that they are
verifiable.

[sign releases]: https://github.com/mozilla/geckodriver/issues/292
