python/mozperftest/perfdocs/writing.rst, before:

Performance scripts
===================

Performance scripts are programs that drive the browser to run a specific
benchmark (like a page load or a lower level call) and produce metrics.

We support two flavors right now in `perftest` (but it's easy to add
new ones):

- **xpcshell** a classical xpcshell test, turned into a performance test
- **browsertime** a browsertime script, which runs a full browser and controls
  it via a Selenium client.
- **mochitest** a classical mochitest test, turned into a performance test

In order to qualify as performance tests, both flavors require metadata.

For our supported flavors that are both JavaScript modules, those are
provided in a `perfMetadata` mapping variable in the module, or in
the `module.exports` variable when using Node.

This is the list of fields:

- **owner**: name of the owner (person or team) [mandatory]
- **author**: author of the test
- **name**: name of the test [mandatory]
- **description**: short description [mandatory]
- **longDescription**: longer description
- **options**: options used to run the test
- **supportedBrowsers**: list of supported browsers (or "Any")
- **supportedPlatforms**: list of supported platforms (or "Any")
- **tags**: a list of tags that describe the test

Tests are registered using tests manifests and the **PERFTESTS_MANIFESTS**
variable in `moz.build` files - it's good practice to name this file
`perftest.toml`.

Example of such a file: https://searchfox.org/mozilla-central/source/testing/performance/perftest.toml


xpcshell
--------

`xpcshell` tests are plain xpcshell tests, with two more things:

- the `perfMetadata` variable, as described in the previous section
- calls to `info("perfMetrics", ...)` to send metrics to the `perftest` framework.

Here's an example of such a metrics call::

    # compute some speed metrics
    let speed = 12345;
    info("perfMetrics", JSON.stringify({ speed }));


Mochitest
---------

Similar to ``xpcshell`` tests, these are standard ``mochitest`` tests with some extra things:

- the ``perfMetadata`` variable, as described in the previous section
- calls to ``info("perfMetrics", ...)`` to send metrics to the ``perftest`` framework

Note that the ``perfMetadata`` variable can exist in any ``<script>...</script>`` element in the Mochitest HTML test file. The ``perfMetadata`` variable also needs a couple additional settings in Mochitest tests. These are the ``manifest``, and ``manifest_flavor`` options::

    var perfMetadata = {
      owner: "Performance Team",
      name: "Test test",
      description: "N/A",
      options: {
        default: {
          perfherder: true,
          perfherder_metrics: [
            { name: "Registration", unit: "ms" },
          ],
          manifest: "perftest.toml",
          manifest_flavor: "plain",
          extra_args: [
            "headless",
          ]
        },
      },
    };

The ``extra_args`` setting provides an area to provide custom Mochitest command-line arguments for this test.

Here's an example of a call that will produce metrics::

    # compute some speed metrics
    let speed = 12345;
    info("perfMetrics", JSON.stringify({ speed }));

Existing Mochitest unit tests can be modified with these to be compatible with mozperftest, but note that some issues exist when doing this:

- unittest issues with mochitest tests running on hardware
- multiple configurations of a test running in a single manifest

At the top of this document, you can find some information about the recommended approach for adding a new manifest dedicated to running performance tests.

Locally, mozperftest uses ``./mach test`` to run your test. Always ensure that your test works in ``./mach test`` before attempting to run it through ``./mach perftest``. In CI, we use a custom "remote" run that runs Mochitest directly, skipping ``./mach test``.

If everything is setup correctly, running a performance test locally will be as simple as this::

    ./mach perftest <path/to/my/mochitest-test.html>


Custom Script
-------------

Custom Script tests use a custom/adhoc script to execute a test. Currently, only shell scripts are supported through the ScriptShellRunner. In the future, other types of scripts may be supported through the addition of new test layers. These types of scripts support both mobile and desktop testing within the ``custom-script`` flavor.

Custom Shell Scripts
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

A shell script test must contain the following fields as comments somewhere in the code::

  # Name: name-of-test
  # Owner: Name/team that owns the test
  # Description: Description of the test

Optionally, it can also contain a line that starts with ``Options:`` to denote any default options. These options are similar to other test layers. For these custom script tests, a valid JSON string is expected in this field.

These scripts have a `BROWSER_BINARY` defined for them which will point to the binary (or package name on mobile) that is being tested. By default, this is Firefox. If a different binary is required, ``--binary`` can be used to specify it, or ``--app`` if the application is known and can be found automatically (not guaranteed).

Once everything is setup for your shell script test, you can run it with the following::

  ./mach perftest <path/to/custom-script.sh>


Alert
-----

This flavor/layer enables running all tests that produced a performance alert locally. It can either run the basic test without any options, or it can run the exact same command that was used to run the test in CI by passing the ``--alert-exact`` option. The ``--alert-tests`` option can also be used to specify which tests should be run from the alert.

The following command can be used as a sample to run all the tests of a given alert number::

  ./mach perftest <ALERT-NUMBER>

Note that this layer has no tests available for it, and new tests should never make use of this layer.

Browsertime
-----------

With the browsertime layer, performance scenarios are Node modules that
implement at least one async function that will be called by the framework once
the browser has started. The function gets a webdriver session and can interact
with the browser.

You can write complex, interactive scenarios to simulate a user journey,
and collect various metrics.

Full documentation is available `here <https://www.sitespeed.io/documentation/sitespeed.io/scripting/>`_

The mozilla-central repository has a few performance tests script in
`testing/performance` and more should be added in components in the future.

By convention, a performance test is prefixed with **perftest_** to be
recognized by the `perftest` command.

A performance test implements at least one async function published in node's
`module.exports` as `test`. The function receives two objects:

- **context**, which contains:

  - **options** - All the options sent from the CLI to Browsertime
  - **log** - an instance to the log system so you can log from your navigation script
  - **index** - the index of the runs, so you can keep track of which run you are currently on
  - **storageManager** - The Browsertime storage manager that can help you read/store files to disk
  - **selenium.webdriver** - The Selenium WebDriver public API object
  - **selenium.driver** - The instantiated version of the WebDriver driving the current version of the browser

- **command** provides API to interact with the browser. It's a wrapper
  around the selenium client `Full documentation is available here <https://www.sitespeed.io/documentation/sitespeed.io/scripting/#commands>`_


Below is an example of a test that visits the BBC homepage and clicks on a link.

.. sourcecode:: javascript

    "use strict";

    async function setUp(context) {
      context.log.info("setUp example!");
    }

    async function test(context, commands) {
        await commands.navigate("https://www.bbc.com/");

        // Wait for browser to settle
        await commands.wait.byTime(10000);

        // Start the measurement
        await commands.measure.start("pageload");

        // Click on the link and wait for page complete check to finish.
        await commands.click.byClassNameAndWait("block-link__overlay-link");

        // Stop and collect the measurement
        await commands.measure.stop();
    }

    async function tearDown(context) {
      context.log.info("tearDown example!");
    }

    module.exports = {
        setUp,
        test,
        tearDown,
        owner: "Performance Team",
        test_name: "BBC",
        description: "Measures pageload performance when clicking on a link from the bbc.com",
        supportedBrowsers: "Any",
        supportedPlatforms: "Any",
    };


Besides the `test` function, scripts can implement a `setUp` and a `tearDown` function to run
some code before and after the test. Those functions will be called just once, whereas
the `test` function might be called several times (through the `iterations` option)


Hooks
-----

A Python module can be used to run functions during a run lifecycle. Available hooks are:

- **before_iterations(args)** runs before everything is started. Gets the args, which
  can be changed. The **args** argument also contains a **virtualenv** variable that
  can be used for installing Python packages (e.g. through `install_package <https://searchfox.org/mozilla-central/source/python/mozperftest/mozperftest/utils.py#115-144>`_).
- **before_runs(env)** runs before the test is launched. Can be used to
  change the running environment.
- **after_runs(env)** runs after the test is done.
- **on_exception(env, layer, exception)** called on any exception. Provides the
  layer in which the exception occurred, and the exception. If the hook returns `True`
  the exception is ignored and the test resumes. If the hook returns `False`, the
  exception is ignored and the test ends immediately. The hook can also re-raise the
  exception or raise its own exception.

In the example below, the `before_runs` hook is setting the options on the fly,
so users don't have to provide them in the command line::

    from mozperftest.browser.browsertime import add_options

    url = "'https://www.example.com'"

    common_options = [("processStartTime", "true"),
                      ("firefox.disableBrowsertimeExtension", "true"),
                      ("firefox.android.intentArgument", "'-a'"),
                      ("firefox.android.intentArgument", "'android.intent.action.VIEW'"),
                      ("firefox.android.intentArgument", "'-d'"),
                      ("firefox.android.intentArgument", url)]


    def before_runs(env, **kw):
        add_options(env, common_options)


To use this hook module, it can be passed to the `--hooks` option::

    $  ./mach perftest --hooks hooks.py perftest_example.js

Commit message:

Bug 1940442 - Add documentation about _TRY_MAPPING variable for mozperftest. r=perftest-reviewers,kshampur DONTBUILD
Differential Revision: https://phabricator.services.mozilla.com/D233493

python/mozperftest/perfdocs/writing.rst, after:

Performance scripts
===================

Performance scripts are programs that drive the browser to run a specific
benchmark (like a page load or a lower level call) and produce metrics.

We support two flavors right now in `perftest` (but it's easy to add
new ones):

- **xpcshell** a classical xpcshell test, turned into a performance test
- **browsertime** a browsertime script, which runs a full browser and controls
  it via a Selenium client.
- **mochitest** a classical mochitest test, turned into a performance test

In order to qualify as performance tests, both flavors require metadata.

For our supported flavors that are both JavaScript modules, those are
provided in a `perfMetadata` mapping variable in the module, or in
the `module.exports` variable when using Node.

This is the list of fields:

- **owner**: name of the owner (person or team) [mandatory]
- **author**: author of the test
- **name**: name of the test [mandatory]
- **description**: short description [mandatory]
- **longDescription**: longer description
- **options**: options used to run the test
- **supportedBrowsers**: list of supported browsers (or "Any")
- **supportedPlatforms**: list of supported platforms (or "Any")
- **tags**: a list of tags that describe the test

Tests are registered using tests manifests and the **PERFTESTS_MANIFESTS**
variable in `moz.build` files - it's good practice to name this file
`perftest.toml`.

Example of such a file: https://searchfox.org/mozilla-central/source/testing/performance/perftest.toml


XPCShell
--------

`xpcshell` tests are plain xpcshell tests, with two more things:

- the `perfMetadata` variable, as described in the previous section
- calls to `info("perfMetrics", ...)` to send metrics to the `perftest` framework.

Here's an example of such a metrics call::

    # compute some speed metrics
    let speed = 12345;
    info("perfMetrics", JSON.stringify({ speed }));

XPCShell Tests in CI
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

To run your test in CI, you may need to modify the ``_TRY_MAPPING`` variable `found here <https://searchfox.org/mozilla-central/rev/7d1b5c88343879056168aa710a9ee743392604c0/python/mozperftest/mozperftest/utils.py#299>`_. This will allow us to find your test file in CI, and is needed because the file mappings differ from local runs. The mapping maps the top-level folder of the test to it's location in CI. To find this location/mapping, download the ``target.xpcshell.tests.tar.gz`` archive from the build task and search for your test file in it.

The XPCShell test that is written can also be run as a unit test, however, if this is not desired, set the `disabled = reason` flag in the test TOML file to prevent it from running there. `See here for an example <https://searchfox.org/mozilla-central/rev/7d1b5c88343879056168aa710a9ee743392604c0/toolkit/components/ml/tests/browser/perftest.toml#7>`_.

Mochitest
---------

Similar to ``xpcshell`` tests, these are standard ``mochitest`` tests with some extra things:

- the ``perfMetadata`` variable, as described in the previous section
- calls to ``info("perfMetrics", ...)`` to send metrics to the ``perftest`` framework

Note that the ``perfMetadata`` variable can exist in any ``<script>...</script>`` element in the Mochitest HTML test file. The ``perfMetadata`` variable also needs a couple additional settings in Mochitest tests. These are the ``manifest``, and ``manifest_flavor`` options::

    var perfMetadata = {
      owner: "Performance Team",
      name: "Test test",
      description: "N/A",
      options: {
        default: {
          perfherder: true,
          perfherder_metrics: [
            { name: "Registration", unit: "ms" },
          ],
          manifest: "perftest.toml",
          manifest_flavor: "plain",
          extra_args: [
            "headless",
          ]
        },
      },
    };

The ``extra_args`` setting provides an area to provide custom Mochitest command-line arguments for this test.

Here's an example of a call that will produce metrics::

    # compute some speed metrics
    let speed = 12345;
    info("perfMetrics", JSON.stringify({ speed }));

Existing Mochitest unit tests can be modified with these to be compatible with mozperftest, but note that some issues exist when doing this:

- unittest issues with mochitest tests running on hardware
- multiple configurations of a test running in a single manifest

At the top of this document, you can find some information about the recommended approach for adding a new manifest dedicated to running performance tests.

Locally, mozperftest uses ``./mach test`` to run your test. Always ensure that your test works in ``./mach test`` before attempting to run it through ``./mach perftest``. In CI, we use a custom "remote" run that runs Mochitest directly, skipping ``./mach test``.

If everything is setup correctly, running a performance test locally will be as simple as this::

    ./mach perftest <path/to/my/mochitest-test.html>

Mochitest Tests in CI
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

To run your test in CI, you may need to modify the ``_TRY_MAPPING`` variable `found here <https://searchfox.org/mozilla-central/rev/7d1b5c88343879056168aa710a9ee743392604c0/python/mozperftest/mozperftest/utils.py#299>`_. This will allow us to find your test file in CI, and is needed because the file mappings differ from local runs. The mapping maps the top-level folder of the test to it's location in CI. To find this location/mapping, download the ``target.mochitest.tests.tar.gz`` archive from the build task and search for your test file in it.

The Mochitest test that is written can also be run as a unit test, however, if this is not desired, set the `disabled = reason` flag in the test TOML file to prevent it from running there. `See here for an example <https://searchfox.org/mozilla-central/rev/7d1b5c88343879056168aa710a9ee743392604c0/toolkit/components/ml/tests/browser/perftest.toml#7>`_.

Custom Script
-------------

Custom Script tests use a custom/adhoc script to execute a test. Currently, only shell scripts are supported through the ScriptShellRunner. In the future, other types of scripts may be supported through the addition of new test layers. These types of scripts support both mobile and desktop testing within the ``custom-script`` flavor.

Custom Shell Scripts
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

A shell script test must contain the following fields as comments somewhere in the code::

  # Name: name-of-test
  # Owner: Name/team that owns the test
  # Description: Description of the test

Optionally, it can also contain a line that starts with ``Options:`` to denote any default options. These options are similar to other test layers. For these custom script tests, a valid JSON string is expected in this field.

These scripts have a `BROWSER_BINARY` defined for them which will point to the binary (or package name on mobile) that is being tested. By default, this is Firefox. If a different binary is required, ``--binary`` can be used to specify it, or ``--app`` if the application is known and can be found automatically (not guaranteed).

Once everything is setup for your shell script test, you can run it with the following::

  ./mach perftest <path/to/custom-script.sh>


Alert
-----

This flavor/layer enables running all tests that produced a performance alert locally. It can either run the basic test without any options, or it can run the exact same command that was used to run the test in CI by passing the ``--alert-exact`` option. The ``--alert-tests`` option can also be used to specify which tests should be run from the alert.

The following command can be used as a sample to run all the tests of a given alert number::

  ./mach perftest <ALERT-NUMBER>

Note that this layer has no tests available for it, and new tests should never make use of this layer.

Browsertime
-----------

With the browsertime layer, performance scenarios are Node modules that
implement at least one async function that will be called by the framework once
the browser has started. The function gets a webdriver session and can interact
with the browser.

You can write complex, interactive scenarios to simulate a user journey,
and collect various metrics.

Full documentation is available `here <https://www.sitespeed.io/documentation/sitespeed.io/scripting/>`_

The mozilla-central repository has a few performance tests script in
`testing/performance` and more should be added in components in the future.

By convention, a performance test is prefixed with **perftest_** to be
recognized by the `perftest` command.

A performance test implements at least one async function published in node's
`module.exports` as `test`. The function receives two objects:

- **context**, which contains:

  - **options** - All the options sent from the CLI to Browsertime
  - **log** - an instance to the log system so you can log from your navigation script
  - **index** - the index of the runs, so you can keep track of which run you are currently on
  - **storageManager** - The Browsertime storage manager that can help you read/store files to disk
  - **selenium.webdriver** - The Selenium WebDriver public API object
  - **selenium.driver** - The instantiated version of the WebDriver driving the current version of the browser

- **command** provides API to interact with the browser. It's a wrapper
  around the selenium client `Full documentation is available here <https://www.sitespeed.io/documentation/sitespeed.io/scripting/#commands>`_


Below is an example of a test that visits the BBC homepage and clicks on a link.

.. sourcecode:: javascript

    "use strict";

    async function setUp(context) {
      context.log.info("setUp example!");
    }

    async function test(context, commands) {
        await commands.navigate("https://www.bbc.com/");

        // Wait for browser to settle
        await commands.wait.byTime(10000);

        // Start the measurement
        await commands.measure.start("pageload");

        // Click on the link and wait for page complete check to finish.
        await commands.click.byClassNameAndWait("block-link__overlay-link");

        // Stop and collect the measurement
        await commands.measure.stop();
    }

    async function tearDown(context) {
      context.log.info("tearDown example!");
    }

    module.exports = {
        setUp,
        test,
        tearDown,
        owner: "Performance Team",
        test_name: "BBC",
        description: "Measures pageload performance when clicking on a link from the bbc.com",
        supportedBrowsers: "Any",
        supportedPlatforms: "Any",
    };


Besides the `test` function, scripts can implement a `setUp` and a `tearDown` function to run
some code before and after the test. Those functions will be called just once, whereas
the `test` function might be called several times (through the `iterations` option)


Hooks
-----

A Python module can be used to run functions during a run lifecycle. Available hooks are:

- **before_iterations(args)** runs before everything is started. Gets the args, which
  can be changed. The **args** argument also contains a **virtualenv** variable that
  can be used for installing Python packages (e.g. through `install_package <https://searchfox.org/mozilla-central/source/python/mozperftest/mozperftest/utils.py#115-144>`_).
- **before_runs(env)** runs before the test is launched. Can be used to
  change the running environment.
- **after_runs(env)** runs after the test is done.
- **on_exception(env, layer, exception)** called on any exception. Provides the
  layer in which the exception occurred, and the exception. If the hook returns `True`
  the exception is ignored and the test resumes. If the hook returns `False`, the
  exception is ignored and the test ends immediately. The hook can also re-raise the
  exception or raise its own exception.

In the example below, the `before_runs` hook is setting the options on the fly,
so users don't have to provide them in the command line::

    from mozperftest.browser.browsertime import add_options

    url = "'https://www.example.com'"

    common_options = [("processStartTime", "true"),
                      ("firefox.disableBrowsertimeExtension", "true"),
                      ("firefox.android.intentArgument", "'-a'"),
                      ("firefox.android.intentArgument", "'android.intent.action.VIEW'"),
                      ("firefox.android.intentArgument", "'-d'"),
                      ("firefox.android.intentArgument", url)]


    def before_runs(env, **kw):
        add_options(env, common_options)


To use this hook module, it can be passed to the `--hooks` option::

    $  ./mach perftest --hooks hooks.py perftest_example.js
